---
id: 2021-11-19-run-milvus-2.0-on-windows.md
title: Run Milvus 2.0 on Windows
author: JiBin
date: 2021-11-19
desc: This tutorial introduces how to run Milvus 2.0 on Windows.
cover: assets.zilliz.com/screenshot_20211119_104605_8f61d39fef.png
tag: Technology
---

This tutorial introduces how to run Milvus 2.0 on Windows. If you want to get started with Milvus 2.0 using Windows, or simply have to run Milvus on Windows due to environment limits, this tutorial can be a good reference. This article is originally written by [@matrixji](https://github.com/matrixji).

There are two ways to run Milvus 2.0 on Windows:

- [Compile from source code](#Compile-from-source-code)
- [Install from the binary package](#Install-from-the-binary-package)

## Compile from source code

### Prerequisites

You need to install MinGW64/MSYS toolchain before compiling Milvus 2.0 on Windows. See [MSYS2](https://www.msys2.org/) for the installation guide. The compilation in this tutorial is completed in the shell of MSYS2 MinGW 64-bit. You can run `$ pacman -Su` to update the toolchain.

We also recommend that you run `$ pacman -S git` to install git.

### Step 1. Clone code

Run the following command to clone the code from the **windows-dev** branch in the **matrixji/milvus** repository. Currently, all commits can be traced in **windows-dev**, which rebases commits from the upstream main branch [**milvus-io/milvus**](https://github.com/milvus-io/milvus) on a weekly basis.

```python
$ git clone git@github.com:matrixji/milvus.git -b windows-dev
```

### Step 2. Compile Milvus

#### 1. Install dependencies and toolchain

Run the following command to install the required dependencies and toolchain. After the installation, you need to restart the MinGW/MYSY shell to ensure the configurations of some tools are properly applied.

```python
$ cd milvus
$ scripts/install_deps_msys.sh
```

#### 2. Compile Milvus

Run the following command to compile and package Milvus.

```python
$ make
$ sh scripts/package_windows.sh
```

If successful, you will find a zip file in the subdirectory of `windows_package`. The zip file contains all the files for running `milvus.exe`, including `minio.exe` and `etcd.exe`.

<div class="alert note">
Milvus 2.0 is developed in Go. You might need to configure <a href='https://goproxy.cn/'>Goproxy</a> to install third-party modules.
</div>

## Install from the binary package

You can also download the binary package that has already been compiled from [Releases - matrixji/milvus](https://github.com/matrixji/milvus/releases). Each release has **windows-test-** as the prefix, for instance, **windows-test-v8**. Find the release you want and download the corresponding zip package.

### Step 1. Start Milvus

#### 1. Unzip the package

Unzip the package, and you will find a `milvus` directory, which contains all the files required.

#### 2. Start a MinIO service

Double-click the `run_minio.bat` file to start a MinIO service with default configurations. Data will be stored in the subdirectory `s3data`.

#### 3. Start an etcd service

Double-click the `run_etcd.bat` file to start an etcd service with default configurations.

#### 4. Start Milvus service

Double-click the `run_milvus.bat` file to start the Milvus service.

### Step 2. Run `hello_milvus.py`

After starting the Milvus service, you can test by running `hello_milvus.py`. See [Hello Milvus](https://milvus.io/docs/v2.0.0/example_code.md) for more information.
